Welcome back everyone.
This lecture on resumes one of the very first things a potential employer is going to see about you
is your resume.
Let's go over some key points when creating a resume for data science positions.
You're going to want to use metrics on your resume to show what you've done.
So you're going to want to use phrases like increased accuracy by 30 percent and a fraud detection model
instead of just saying something like improved detection model or improved models at work using metrics
really alerts an employer to actual changes and improvements that you've been able to create.
So you want to use phrases like manage a team of three to create revenue forecasting models instead
of just saying something like managed a team.
Now there's also discussion of how much she'd customize a resume for each job position.
So I would advise you to do as much customization as possible later on when we talk about the pipeline
you'll realize that the actual amount of jobs you apply to is probably going to make this impossible
because of just the scale of customizing every single resume.
So instead what you should do is probably have resumes that are tailored per position focus and then
have your really customized resumes tailored for the top company's choice.
So we should end up doing is out of all the companies you're going to apply to.
Pick your top 10 or 15 that you would really like to get and do custom resumes for each of those positions.
Then for the rest of the applications you'll want resumes that are tailored to some sort of facet of
data science.
So maybe one resume will focus a little more in product in other resumes going to focus a little more
on machine learning capabilities.
Another resume will focus more on business aspects cetera.
Now keep in mind each resume should at least have some sort of mention of the company.
So you will have to customize a little bit but those are really easy to kind of swap in and out.
You should always double check your resume to make sure you're not doing accidental references for some
other position or some other company.
Now another thing that kind of goes along your resume is social proof.
So social proof is a really powerful way to help you land the interview and also augments your resume.
So you're going to want to make sure that you have an up to date LinkedIn profile.
That's also really important.
And you also want to make sure that in your LinkedIn profile you go ahead and turn your settings on
where you indicate that you're currently conducting a job search that lets recruiters using Linked-In
tools for recruitment actually.
Know that you are looking for a job and you'll notice that you'll begin to get a lot more linked in
messages that way.
You'll also probably want a hub page of recent projects.
So a really good way to attract attention is by linking back to your page where you have projects.
So that allows employers to see that you're still active you're still learning and that you're contributing.
The next thing you may want for social proof is a Kaggle profile that's basically a data science or
machine learning competition Web site and often on those Web sites those actual competitions may lead
to interviews themselves.
So it's a Web site where people either offer money or just for knowledge competitions on solving real
data science problems for real companies and sometimes major companies.
For instance Facebook have created competitions where the prize is actually an interview for their data
science team.
So having a good profile there showing that you're involved in competitions is a really good way not
just to have social proof but it's also a great way to practice your skills and keep your skills fresh.
So I would definitely recommend you check out that resource other social proof that may be useful to
you or things like having that Stack Exchange profile that is going to stack overflow helping other
users out by answering questions or maybe having a good core profile by also answering questions there.
Those are definitely not as strong as you linked in but also an important part of that social proof
ecosystem.
And then finally it's always a good idea to have either a personal blog or a Web site that you can link
to an employer.
So as far as general resume tips are concerned you'll want to keep it down to the front sight of just
one page.
Another rule of thumb that people say as far as how long it should be is one page per 10 years but the
actual amount of time that a recruiter spends at looking at a resume you'll probably just want to limit
it down to one page with the key highlights.
You also want to stick to simple formatting and you should only use acronyms that are really common.
So for example as well for a structured query language or sequel it's a good acronym to use pretty much
everyone in the space knows about it but something like Optix which is actually a clustering algorithm
might be a bad choice unless you're specifically applying to a position where you would expect the recruiters
to understand what that acronym stands for.
So again avoid acronyms unless they're really common ones and you'll probably only want to use common
file type.
So basically stick with PEF or Word documents for your resume.
I know sometimes certain Web sites require you to pasan a text file of your resume so you may want to
keep that handy as well.
Let's go ahead and explore a resume example.
And you can check out the resource links for direct links.
These examples that we're going to show for it.
So here we are looking at will Stanton's resume this is actually a real resume.
Some of the information has been anonymized.
But you can see here that there's a profile recent work experience technical skills education some honors
and awards and then select that presentation.
So let's kind of walk through this what's good what you may want to change when working on your resume
etc. So you'll definitely want to keep clear information at the very top so your contact information
your email Linked-In maybe even your page on my particular resume.
I usually include my hub and my link then.
So you want to contact information up top.
Keep it simple keep it clear.
Maybe sometimes people like to make the fonts of their name a little larger.
But again keep it very simple as far as styles concerned the next line.
Here we see a profile.
Now there's a lot of debates on whether or not you should have some sort of profile statement or some
sort of statement of purpose on your resume.
In my opinion those are unnecessary.
I don't think you should have a statement of purpose or some sort of profile of just two lines that
doesn't really add anything to your resume because if you're applying the position it's pretty clear
what your purposes but it is included in this particular resume and the resume got him the job.
So again kind of up to you.
Different recruiters are going to have different opinions on it.
In my opinion you don't need some sort of profile or purpose of statement of just two lines.
It's kind of just taking up space here.
But if he needs a little bit of filler go ahead and put it in there.
Up next should be your recent work experience.
And if you're still coming out out of education so maybe you just finished your undergrad and you don't
actually have work experience then just label this experience kind of save yourself there a little bit
of terminology.
And usually you're going to want to have the position some sort of description of where it was actually
at.
So maybe the company name and then clearly formatted dates that you were there.
So different experience and the description using usually just three bullet points or three sentences
of what you did each particular work experience position.
You can see here there's different examples that you're going to want to describe your technical skills.
Now technical skills this may be something you want to edit a little bit the pending on the actual company
or actual position for example if you're just going for a basic data and out analyst position things
like machine Lowney of classification or regression clustering cetera since those are pretty vague terms
that would be ok.
However if you're applying for a position maybe you're applying a Netflix and there's a very specific
machine learning engineer position for recommendation systems you may want to go in a little more detail
about the actual machine learning techniques you know maybe know a specific recommender system techniques
and you want to clarify that in your resume for particular job positions.
So again it's OK to have these more generalized terms but if you're focused on a position where they're
going to be looking for clear aspects based off what the position posting said you might want to include
that here softer in programming languages you should always include that.
And I think this format is really good where you include the language and then include the libraries
kind of attach the language that you're already familiar with.
Some people like to separate these actually really like the formatting of the main language and then
here are the various libraries associated with Python that the recruiter may be looking for.
Our sequel Hadoop and then things related to do.
Etc. and selected coursework.
I would actually not recommend this unless you're fresh out of undergrad depending on how long you've
been out of undergrad.
You may not need to worry about some of this stuff but again it really depends of the position.
The position is clearly asking for someone with a background in statistics or math then this is great.
Add in as far as what knowledge you have available.
As far as your coursework is concerned that you have education you can see here college and get a Ph.D.
but left the program later on honors and awards.
These are great to include especially if you're just coming out of college and then select presentations.
Maybe you don't have any presentations that you given.
Then instead you have selected projects recone link to your projects other side projects that you've
worked on etc..
Ok so definitely check out the resources for this example resumes.
You can check it out yourself and maybe even use it as a model.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.